## Abstract

Westminster College, small liberal arts college in Fulton, Missouri, desires to more accurately plan their course offerings to correctly anticipate staffing needs. In order to project course demand from current students, we develop an algorithm to suggest individual student plans to fulfill all graduation requirements within four, two-semester years including selected major(s) and minor(s) is desired. Constraints include maximum and minimum number of credits per semester, prerequisite and co- requisite courses, and miscellaneous other requirements. We assume students have pre-selected the courses they desire to take to meet elective requirements. We generate an initial state in a pre-processing step by assigning courses from the required and elective course lists to the eight semester lists of courses. Then we run a simulated annealing algorithm to maximize the number of constraints met. A simplified version of the problem for one major and the general education requirements and using placeholder courses for elective requirements was used to test the time performance and goodness of the solution. The algorithm was run with a starting temperature of 500 degrees and cooling rates of 1% and 5%. Both rates of cooling gave optimal solutions, meeting all constraints. The 1% cooling rate executed in 30ms and the 5% cooling rate executed in 28ms. The algorithm appears well suited to solve the complete problem and the next steps are to adapt the solution to include multiple majors and minors and to replace the placeholder courses with specific courses for the elective requirements.
